#-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Copyright (C) 2013 Andrei Olaru, Marius-Tudor Benea, Nguyen Thi Thuy Nga, Amal El Fallah Seghrouchni, Cedric Herpson.
# 
# This file is part of tATAmI-PC.
# 
# tATAmI-PC is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or any later version.
# 
# tATAmI-PC is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.
# 
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with tATAmI-PC.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
#-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Old git repository: herpsonc@forge.lip6.fr:tATAmI-PC


Existing branches for tATAmI-PC:
* master - current working branch (latest version of tATAmI)

	
Older branches:
* repair-android - further fixing the project for a better android compatibility
* fix-PC-import - fixing the organization of the project to correctly import the classes in Android - merged into master on 15-01-2013
* first_version - the first version of the project, developed mostly at LIP6 until the fall of 2012, and slightly changed after this date. It also comprises a working version of the goal features developed by Alex Garella and Gerard Simons. This branch is kept for historical purposes, mainly for the history of changes made in the first state of the project.
* upb_only_first - the changes made by the team at UPB between January 2012 and April 2012. Also kept for historical purposes.
* upb_only_last - the changes made by the team at UPB from April 2012 until November 16, 2012, when it was merged with the master branch.
